docs: add doc to recover from pod from lost node (#8742)
rook/rook: Documentation/ceph-csi-troubleshooting.md

```

Where `-m` is one of the mon endpoints and the `--key` is the key used by the CSI driver for accessing the Ceph cluster.

> ## Node Loss

Reviewer: For another PR, it would be good to add a TOC to the top of the doc like we have in ceph-common-issues.md, so this topic would be easier to find.

Author: okay I'll do it as a follow up PR

When a node is lost, you will see application pods on the node stuck in the `Terminating` state while another pod is rescheduled and is in the `ContainerCreating` state.

> To allow the application pod to start on another node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow the application pod to start on another node, force delete the pod.
```

> ### Force delete your application pod. After some timeout (8-10 minutes), your pod will be rescheduled

Reviewer: Headings are not usually sentences
```suggestion
### Force deleting the pod
```

To force delete the pod stuck in the `Terminating` state:

```console
$ kubectl -n rook-ceph delete pod my-app-69cd495f9b-nl6hf --grace-period 0 --force
```

> **And** then wait for timeout (8-10 minutes). If the pod still not in running state in thatcase , we need to wait more or go and blacklist the watcher(mentioned below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the force delete, wait for a timeout of about 8-10 minutes. If the pod still not in the running state, continue with the next section to blacklist the node.
```

> ### Shorten the timeout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Blacklisting a node
```

> To shorten the timeout, you can mark the node as "blacklisted" so Rook can safely failover the pod sooner.

Reviewer: In case the node is just offline and there is no watcher active, we need to just blacklist the whole node, rather than blacklist just a session id, right? Seems like we could simplify this section to just blacklist the node ip.

Reviewer: Response? I don't understand why we would want to only backlist only a session id instead of always blocklisting the whole node. The point is also to prevent a node from coming back online and create a new session, right?

Author: @Madhu-1 can you help here? Thanks

Reviewer 2: We need to blacklist the IP as we want to block all sessions of that node.

Reviewer: Ok, so if we want to blacklist all sessions, we only need the node ip, right? And no need to get the PV session IDs?

Reviewer 2: Yes we just need the Node IP to blacklist it.

```console
$ PVC_NAME= # enter pvc name
$ IMAGE=$(kubectl get pv $(kubectl get pv | grep $PVC_NAME | awk '{ print $1 }') -o jsonpath='{.spec.csi.volumeHandle}' | cut -d '-' -f 6- | awk '{print "csi-vol-"$1}')  # enter the pvc name
$ echo $IMAGE
```

The solution is to remove the watcher, following the commands below from the [Rook toolbox](ceph-toolbox.md):

```console
rbd status <image> --pool=replicapool # get image from above output
```
>```
> Watchers:
>	watcher=10.130.2.1:0/2076971174 client.14206 cookie=18446462598732840961
>```

```console
$ ceph osd blacklist add 10.130.2.1:0 # to know which watcher to block see above output
blacklisting 10.130.2.1:0
```

> After running the above command within a few minutes the pod will be running. **But don't forget to remove the above blacklist watcher**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the above command within a few minutes the pod will be running. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removing a node blacklist

After you have confirmed with 100% certainty that a node is permanently offline, you can remove the node from the blacklist.

** IMPORTANT **: If the node ever comes back online, the volume may be corrupted. It is very important to confirm the node is permanently gone.
```

```

Where `-m` is one of the mon endpoints and the `--key` is the key used by the CSI driver for accessing the Ceph cluster.

## Node Loss

When a node is lost, you will see application pods on the node stuck in the `Terminating` state while another pod is rescheduled and is in the `ContainerCreating` state.

To allow the application pod to start on another node, force delete the pod.

###  Force deleting the pod

To force delete the pod stuck in the `Terminating` state:

```console

> $ kubectl -n rook-ceph delete pod my-app-69cd495f9b-nl6hf --grace-period 0 --force

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
kubectl -n rook-ceph delete pod my-app-69cd495f9b-nl6hf --grace-period 0 --force
```

Author: I think we keep `$` in front when some changes are required in the command so that users don't directly run this copy/paste the command?

```

After the force delete, wait for a timeout of about 8-10 minutes. If the pod still not in the running state, continue with the next section to blacklist the node.

### Blacklisting a node

To shorten the timeout, you can mark the node as "blacklisted" so Rook can safely failover the pod sooner.

```console

> $ PVC_NAME= # enter pvc name
> $ IMAGE=$(kubectl get pv PVC_NAME-o jsonpath='{.spec.csi.volumeHandle}' | cut -d '-' -f 6- | awk '{print "csi-vol-"$1}')  # enter the pvc name

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ PV_NAME= # enter pvc name
$ IMAGE=$(kubectl get pv $PV_NAME-o jsonpath='{.spec.csi.volumeHandle}' | cut -d '-' -f 6- | awk '{print "csi-vol-"$1}')
```

Author: done

> $ IMAGE=$(kubectl get pv $(kubectl get pv | grep $PVC_NAME | awk '{ print $1 }') -o jsonpath='{.spec.csi.volumeHandle}' | cut -d '-' -f 6- | awk '{print "csi-vol-"$1}')  # enter the pvc name

Reviewer 3: You don't need to grep for the `PVC_NAME` name, just do `kubectl get pv PVC_NAME -o jsonpath...`

$ echo $IMAGE
```

The solution is to remove the watcher, following the commands below from the [Rook toolbox](ceph-toolbox.md):

```console

> rbd status <image> --pool=<pool name> # get image from above output

Reviewer 3: this needs a `$` then https://github.com/rook/rook/pull/8742/files#r713154240

Author: done.

> rbd status <image> --pool=replicapool # get image from above output

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
rbd status <image> --pool=<pool name> # get image from above output
```

```
>```
> Watchers:
>	watcher=10.130.2.1:0/2076971174 client.14206 cookie=18446462598732840961
>```

```console
$ ceph osd blacklist add 10.130.2.1:0 # to know which watcher to block see above output
blacklisting 10.130.2.1:0

> ```

Author: @travisn before I make changes just to confirm I'll remove the above part and will just ask the user to get node IP(the node which is lost) and blacklist that.

and if Ceph version > octopus we'll use `ceph osd blacklist` else `ceph osd blocklist`

Reviewer 3: If the ceph version is pacific and above use `blocklist` else use `blacklist`.

Author: right, thanks

Reviewer: Correct, we're just blocking the node, rather than a session id.

> $ ceph osd blacklist add 10.130.2.1:0 # to know which watcher to block see above output

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ceph osd blacklist add 10.130.2.1:0 # to know which watcher to block see above output
```

### Removing a node blacklist

After running the above command within a few minutes the pod will be running.

```console

> $ ceph osd blacklist rm 10.130.2.1:0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ceph osd blacklist rm 10.130.2.1:0
```

```

Where `-m` is one of the mon endpoints and the `--key` is the key used by the CSI driver for accessing the Ceph cluster.

## Node Loss

When a node is lost, you will see application pods on the node stuck in the `Terminating` state while another pod is rescheduled and is in the `ContainerCreating` state.

To allow the application pod to start on another node, force delete the pod.

###  Force deleting the pod

To force delete the pod stuck in the `Terminating` state:

```console
$ kubectl -n rook-ceph delete pod my-app-69cd495f9b-nl6hf --grace-period 0 --force
```

After the force delete, wait for a timeout of about 8-10 minutes. If the pod still not in the running state, continue with the next section to blacklist the node.

> ### Blacklisting a node

Reviewer: The newer term is "blocklisting", and only use "blacklist" for earlier versions of ceph
```suggestion
### Blocklisting a node
```

Author: Done

> To shorten the timeout, you can mark the node as "blacklisted" from the [Rook toolbox](ceph-toolbox.md) so Rook can safely failover the pod sooner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To shorten the timeout, you can mark the node as "blocklisted" from the [Rook toolbox](ceph-toolbox.md) so Rook can safely failover the pod sooner.
```

> For, Ceph version is atleast Pacific(v16.2.x) run below command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Ceph version is at least Pacific (v16.2.x), run the following command:
```

```console
$ ceph osd blocklist add <NODE_IP> # get the node IP you want to blocklist
blocklisting <NODE_IP>
```

> For, Ceph version is Octopus(v15.2.x) or older run below command, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Ceph version is Octopus (v15.2.x) or older, run the following command:
```

```console
$ ceph osd blacklist add <NODE_IP> # get the node IP you want to blacklist
blacklisting <NODE_IP>
```

> ### Removing a node blacklist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removing a node blocklist
```

> 

Reviewer: This section needs a description for when/why they should remove the blocklist, such as:
```suggestion
After you are absolutely sure the node is permanently offline and that the node no longer needs to be blocklisted, remove the node from the blocklist. 
```

Author: added

> After running the above command within a few minutes the pod will be running.

Reviewer: This line should move to the previous section, right?

Author: right, changed

> For, Ceph version is atleast Pacific(v16.2.x) run below command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Ceph version is at least Pacific(v16.2.x), run:
```

```console
$ ceph osd blocklist rm <NODE_IP>
un-blocklisting <NODE_IP>
```

> For, Ceph version is Octopus(v15.2.x) or older run below command, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Ceph version is Octopus (v15.2.x) or older, run:
```
